DOCS-9826: TGW topics (#448)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/tgw-attach-arm.adoc

= Attach to Transit Gateways
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#cloudhub-deployments", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-platform-pce-deployments", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-runtime-fabric-deployments", title="Runtime Fabric"]

Use Anypoint Runtime Manager to add a transit gateway and connect your Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) to your private corporate network.

== Prerequisites

Before you can add a transit gateway to CloudHub:

* Create a transit gateway on your corporate AWS account.
+
See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/tgw/tgw-getting-started.html[Getting started with transit gateways^] in the AWS documentation for information about creating a transit gateway on AWS.
+
One transit gateway can support up to 10 VPC attachments.

> * Purchase an Anypoint VPC offering with Transit Gateway entitlements.

Reviewer: Do we need AWS here? Otherwise, I think we want to lc "transit gateway entitlements."

+

> The *Transit Gateways* page is visible in Runtime Manager to Anypoint organizations that have an Anypoint VPC/VPN license.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY avoid / to mean "and/or," unless it is part of a label or name.

+
Attaching one Anypoint VPC to an AWS Transit Gateway uses one Anypoint VPN license.

* Sign in to an Anypoint Platform account with either the CloudHub Network Administrator or the CloudHub Network Viewer user permission.
+
See xref:access-management::users.adoc#grant-permissions-and-roles-to-users[Grant Permissions and Roles to Users].
* Create an Anypoint VPC in Anypoint Platform.
+
See xref:vpc-tutorial.adoc[Create and Update a VPC for Runtime Manager].

* Identify the subnets in your network (in CIDR notation) that you want to make accessible through the transit gateway.

== Transit Gateway Attachment Workflow 

> The steps for attaching to a transit gateway are:

Reviewer: Any other context to add here?

. <<add_tgw,Add the transit gateway>> to Anypoint Platform by <<create_resource_share,creating a resource share in AWS>> to share your transit gateway with Anypoint Platform.
. <<attach_vpc_tgw,Attach your VPCs>> to the transit gateway and <<accept_attachment,accept the VPC attachments>> in AWS.
. <<configure_tgw_routing,Configure transit gateway routing>>:

> .. <<enable_outbound_traffic_from_vpc,Enable outbound traffic from the Anypoint VPC>>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. <<enable_outbound_traffic_from_vpc,Enable outbound traffic from Anypoint VPC>>. 
```

.. <<enable_inbound_traffic_on_aws,Enable inbound traffic through the transit gateway on AWS>>.

[[add_tgw]]
== Add a Transit Gateway

To add a transit gateway:

. Sign in to Anypoint Platform and select *Runtime Manager*.
. From the Runtime Manager navigation menu, click *Transit Gateways*, and then click *Add Transit Gateway*.
+
The *Here's what's coming* page lists the steps to add the transit gateway:
+
image::tgw-process-overview.png[Here's what's coming page]
. Click *I'm ready*. 
. Specify a name for your transit gateway:
+
image::tgw-add.png[Add transit gateway page]
+
Use the same name for your transit gateway in AWS.
You can change this name later.
The name can contain up to 255 alphanumeric characters (a-z, A-Z, 0-9) and hyphens (-).
// They cannot start or end with a hyphen and cannot contain spaces or other characters.

> . Select the region that corresponds to the location of your AWS transit gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the region that corresponds to the location of your AWS Transit Gateway.
```

+
See xref:cloudhub-networking-guide.adoc#regional-services[Regional Services].
+

> Your Anypoint VPC and AWS transit gateway must be in the same region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Anypoint VPC and AWS Transit Gateway must be in the same region.
```

. Click *Next*.
+
The *Add transit gateway* page lists the steps to create a resource share in AWS:
+
image::tgw-add-overview.png[Add transit gateway page: Steps to create a resource share]
+
[NOTE]
The MuleSoft AWS account ID that appears depends on your platform (US, EU, or MuleSoft Government Cloud).

[[create_resource_share]]
== Create a Resource Share

> 

Reviewer: No intro to steps?

Author: I don't think so. It's a wizard with different windows that pop up.

. Sign in to your AWS corporate account.
. In Anypoint Platform, click the *Create resource share* link on the *Add transit gateway* page. 
+
The link opens the AWS RAM console to the page for creating a resource share in the region you specified.

> . On the AWS *Create resource share* page:

Reviewer: c/b
```suggestion
. Take the following actions on the AWS *Create resource share* page:
```

+
--
.. Under *Description*, enter a descriptive name for the resource share in the *Name* field.
.. Under *Resources - _optional_*, select *Transit Gateways* from the *Select resource type* menu and select the transit gateway resource to share.
+
The transit gateway ID appears in the *Selected resources* field.
.. Under *Principals - _optional_*, ensure that *Allow external accounts* is selected, 
enter the MuleSoft AWS account ID that appears on the *Add transit gateway* page, and click *Add*.
+
The AWS account number appears in the *Selected principals* field.
.. Under *Tags*, add a tag if you want.
.. Click *Create resource share*.
.. Copy the *ID* and *Owner* values for the resource share you just created. 
--

> . In Anypoint Platform, in the *Add transit gateway* window: 

Reviewer: Similarly, c/b:
```suggestion
. Take the following actions in the Anypoint Platform *Add transit gateway* window: 
```

To attach Anypoint VPC to the transit gateway:

. In Anypoint Platform, on the *Transit Gateways* page, click *Attach VPC*.
+
The *Attach VPC* button is disabled if no VPCs are available to attach or if the transit gateway addition failed. 
. From the *Select VPC* window, select the VPC to attach:
+
image::tgw-select-vpc.png[Select VPC window]
+
The window displays only the VPCs that are:
+
--
* In the same region as the transit gateway
* Not already attached to the transit gateway
// Can VPCs be added to multiple transit gateways?
* In business groups for which you have CloudHub Network Administrator permissions
--
. Click *Next*.

[[accept_attachment]]
== Accept the VPC Attachment

. Sign in to your AWS corporate account.
. In Anypoint Platform, on the *Accept VPC Attachment* page, click the *Transit Gateway Attachments* link:
+
image::tgw-accept-vpc-attachment.png[Accept VPC Attachment page]
+
The link opens the AWS RAM console to the *Create Transit Gateway Attachment* page.
. In the AWS console:
+
.. Select the attachment that shows *pending acceptance* in the *State* column.
+
The attachment might take a few minutes to appear.
+

> .. Select the Transit Gateway attachment ID and, on the *Details* tab, ensure that *Resource owner account ID* is the MuleSoft AWS account ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the transit gateway attachment ID and, on the *Details* tab, ensure that *Resource owner account ID* is the MuleSoft AWS account ID.
```

.. Click the pencil icon for the attachment and enter a name. 
.. Select *Actions* > *Accept* and click *Accept* to confirm.
+
When the attachment acceptance succeeds, the *State* column shows *available*.
. In Anypoint Platform, in the *Accept VPC Attachment* window, click *Done*.
+
The *Transit Gateways* page shows the progress for accepting the VPC attachment from Anypoint Platform to AWS:
+
image::tgw-checking-attachment-status.png[Checking VPC attachment status]
. Click *Refresh* to update the attachment status.

> When the VPC attachment succeeds, the *Transit Gateways* page displays the *VPC attached* message and the attachment state indicates that it's attached to Transit Gateway:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the VPC attachment succeeds, the *Transit Gateways* page displays the *VPC attached* message and the attachment state indicates that it's attached to AWS Transit Gateway:
```

image::tgw-attached.png[VPC attached successfully]

If the VPC attachment state is `Rejected`, see xref:tgw-troubleshoot.adoc[Troubleshoot Transit Gateway Attachments].

[[configure_tgw_routing]]
== Configure Transit Gateway Routing

> Anypoint VPC supports static routing for transit gateways.

Reviewer: Anything more to say about why this is great for the audience?

Author: I don't think it's great for the audience - it's kind of a limitation (i.e., not dynamic)

> You must configure the network routes (subnets) that you want to be accessible through the transit gateway:

Reviewer: Trying to reduce the modal verbs in our docs, but it is really your call here:
```suggestion
Configure the network routes (subnets) that you want to be accessible through the transit gateway:
```

* On Anypoint Platform, <<enable_outbound_traffic_from_vpc,enable outbound traffic from Anypoint VPC>> to an external destination.
* On AWS, <<enable_inbound_traffic_on_aws,enable inbound traffic>> through your transit gateway. 

=== Prerequisites 

A maximum of 95 route table entries is permitted per VPC, regardless of the number of transit gateway attachments.

> Consolidate networks to the fewest number possible to avoid exceeding the limit.

Reviewer: I wonder if the user requirement should be stated before the reason, just to get those pesky doc skimmers to the point as quickly as possible: consolidate networks before configuring routing. I know it is only two sentences, but you know readers who don't RTFM....

[[enable_outbound_traffic_from_vpc]]
=== Enable Outbound Traffic from Anypoint VPC

After attaching the VPC, enable outbound traffic from Anypoint VPC to an external destination so that apps can access the transit gateway and the transit gateway routes traffic correctly.

> To do this, add routes to the transit gateway route table:

Reviewer: Such beautiful simplicity, here and throughout! Always such a pleasure!

Author: Thank you!

> . In Anypoint Platform, on the *Transit Gateways* page, in the *VPCs* section, click *Add Route*. 

Reviewer: This is a lot of unavoidable navblahblah, but maybe we can reduce it?
```suggestion
. In Anypoint Platform, navigate to *Transit Gateways* > *VPCs* and click *Add Route*. 
```
